.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH KA-DEPLOY 1  "22 May 2002" "Ka Tools Manual"
.SH NAME
ka-d, ka-d.sh \- clone this machine with Ka
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ka-d.sh
.B \-n 
.I NUMBER



.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ka-d
is a script whose goal is to clone the machine where it runs using Ka-deploy.
It will mainly read the hard disk partitionning scheme, the way the partitions are mounted, and then use Ka-deploy to clone the machine.
The list of the destination nodes is outside the scope of this script, and is managed using the ka_pxe_step script on a tftp server.
The NUMBER after the 
.B -n
switch is the number of clients (i.e destination nodes) that the 
.B ka-d-server
program will wait before starting the transfers.
Since this script acts as a 'cloning server' it will be referred to as 'server' in the rest of this document.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " drive"
Copy the master boot record of the specified drive on the same drive on the remote machine. 
.I drive
can be under the form 
.I hda 
or 
.IR /dev/hda .
.TP
.BI \-M " drive file"
Same as above, but use the given file as boot record.
.TP
.BI \-d " NUM"
Normally the server will send an 'exit signal' to the clients when they have
all received the data. If this option is enabled, the server will introduce a
delay between the release of the clients. This delay is the given number in
tenths of second. We use this option to smooth the load on our TFTP servers
for whole-cluster system installations.
.TP
.BI \-x " dir"
Do not send the contents of the given directory. Typical use would be -x /tmp for instance.
.TP
.BI \-D " partition"
Also send to the clients the given partition. This one should be given under the form /dev/foo.
The partition will be read, sent and written as raw binary data. This can be used for windows partitions for instance.
.TP
.BI \-p " drive file"
Do not copy the partition table of 
.IR drive ,
but use the given partition description file instead. Use this when the source and destination nodes are not exactly identical.
.TP
.BI \-r " command"
Run 
.I command
on the destination nodes after cloning. Typical use would be -r lilo for instance.

.SH PARTITION TABLE DESCRIPTION
The files used with the
.B \-p
option must have this form:
One line per partition, with two fields : type of partition and size in megabytes.
The type can be linux, swap, extended. Other types can be obtained by appending their hexadecimal number to 'type'. For example
linux is the same as type83.
The size is either a number of megabytes, or the keyword fill (to take all available space).
The logical partitions must have the logical keyword.

Example:
.br
.RS
.nf
.if t .ft CW

# hda1 = linux root
linux 5000
# hda2 = swap
swap 300
# hda3 = extended
extended fill
# hda5 and 6 = linux
logical linux 500
logical linux fill
.if t .ft R
.fi
.RE

This description scheme will not work for complicated partition tables but should be OK most of the time.


